=> ../../index.gmi Home

# A Summary of the Book of Revelation

=> ../library.gmi Back to Library
=> ../projects_home.gmi Back to Projects Home
=> ../../blog/bible_bins_home.gmi Bible Bins Homepage

The book of Revelation is, for whatever reason, the book of the Bible that I have the most trouble keeping straight in my head. So, I figure that it would be helpful to make a summary of it, chapter by chapter.

## Revelation 1

The apostle John, who has been exiled to the island of Patmos for preaching the Word of God [v. 9] is in communion with the Spirit on the Sabbath [v. 10] when he saw a magnificent vision of Christ [v. 12-16]. Jesus instucts him to make an account of everything that he sees and give it to the seven churches in the Roman province of Asia [v. 11, 19].

## Revelation 2

Jesus dictates a message to the first four of seven churches in the province of Asia.

### The Church in Ephesus

He says that they are doing well in the faith, but they have forsaken love. Christ urges them to love as they did at first. [v. 1-7]

### The Church in Smyrna

Christ has words of encouragement for the Smyrnian church, telling them to continue to persevere through the hardship that the devil will put them through, and that if they are victorious, He will give them the victor's crown. [v. 8-11]

### The Church in Pergamum

Jesus tells the church that they have done well to maintain their faith, despite living in the city where "Satan has his throne." [v. 13] Although, he strongly warns them to reject the teachings of the Nicolaitans. [v. 12-17]

### The Church in Thyatira

Jesus is aware of the deeds, love, and faith of the members of the Thyatirian church, but he tells them to no longer tolerate a particular false prophet who was drawing men into sexual immorality. [v. 18-29]
