```
    //////    //                      
   //    //  //    ////      //////   
  //////    //  //    //  //    //    
 //    //  //  //    //  //    //     
//////    //    ////      //////      
                             //       
                        ////          

```
=> ../index.gmi Home

# Inside of My Mind

I hold a number of different views about a wide variety of topics. Some are pretty standard and run-of-the-mill, others are more controversial. If you are curious about them, read on!

## Being A Modern Monk

I'm pretty unusual in that I shun many very normal aspects of modern life. Using social media, eating out at restaurants, and traveling the world are activities that, in general, I don't participate in. If my Luddism is of interest to you, check out this link!

=> ./modern_monk_home.gmi Modern Luddism Portal

## Christianity

I'm a devout protestant Christian. As such, the primary activity that I partake in on a daily basis is a study of the Bible. An extension of that study is encapsulated here, in so-called Bible bins. Please feel free to peruse them!

=> ./bible_bins_home.gmi Biblical Scripture Reference "Bins" Portal

## Cooking

I am appalled by the fact that many modern people are almost completely dependent on others to cook their food for them! Cooking is an essential skill that everybody needs as a part of their humanity. To this end, I've compiled a list of recipes that I make and use on a regular basis that are delicious, generally healthy, and quick to make.

=> ./cooking_home.gmi Recipes Portal

## Computing

I often get comments from others about my computer and it's appearance. As both a service to the curious, and myself when I want to quickly reinstall the software again, I've documented how I use a computer and what software I use.

=> ./linux_home.gmi Software Portal
