=> ../index.gmi Home

# Tell Us About Yourself

=> ./blog_home.gmi Back to Blog

Introductions. I'm sure that you're familiar with them. Someone new has just started at the office and the boss suggests that everybody go around give a brief summary of themselves. "Tell us your name, what your role is here at the company, and something interesting about yourself."

I used to hate doing these. What is there to say?

Recently however, I've found a great way to introduce myself. It goes something like this:

"Hi, I'm Nolan! I'm probably the most boring person you'll ever meet because it's easier to describe me by the things that I don't do, rather than the things I do."

Then I pick one of the following truthful abstentions and expand upon it a little.

If you'll humour me for just a minute, I'd love to share some of these exercises in self restraint that I've tried to pick up over my life. Most of them fit into just a four main categories.

## I Don't Consume Media

This means that I do not:

* Watch YouTube/Twitch
* Use Social Media
* Use My Cell Phone
* Play Video Games
* Pay Any Attention to the News
* Own a Television
* Watch Sports
* Subscribe to Television/Movie/Music Streaming Services
* Go to Movie Theatres

## I Don't Consume "Trendy" Foods and Drinks

This means that I do not:

* Drink Alcohol or Smoke Marijuana
* Drink Coffee/Tea or Consume Caffeine
* Eat out at Restaurants
* Consume Premade Frozen Food
* Drink Pop/Juice/Smoothies

## I Don't Like Adventures

This means that I do not:

* Own a Car
* Travel
* Camp
* Own a Pet

## I Don't Like Risk

This means that I do not:

* Gamble
* Make Purchases with a Credit Card
* Live Beyond my Financial Means
* Collect any Kind of Pseudo-Financial "Points"

# Why???

That's a great question, and a very natural followup that I get after I make my personal introduction to someone. There are two main reasons, first: I recognize that each of the above activities have a cost associated with them, which I have decided is not worth the benefit that they provide. Second, living with discipline helps me to better serve as a witness of Jesus Christ. This follows from one of my favourite Scripture verses:

> Yet we urge you, brothers and sisters, to [love God's family] more and more, and to make it your ambition to lead a quiet life: You should mind your own business and work with your hands, just as we told you, so that your daily life may win the respect of outsiders and so that you will not be dependent on anybody. - 1 Thessalonians 4:10-12

That being said, I put no trust in the so-called "righteousness" that I gain by making these sacrifices. There is nothing wrong with partaking in these activities (excessive gambling and drinking aside). I'm also not trying to preach to you and say that YOU should adopt these practices as well. This page is about me and my idiosyncrasies; it's not a prescription for anyone else. Now let me be more specific, and discuss these on an abstention by abstention basis:

## Watch YouTube/Twitch

Of all of my idiosyncrasies, this is perhaps the most difficult one for people to swallow. It's also really hard to talk about. Writing this piece has been quite a humbling experience, since I had to put into coherent words my relationship with YouTube and what my life was like before when I was using it. 

Let me give you the whole story, then I'll address some common objections that I get about YouTube.

### The Whole Story

For many years of my life, I spent gargantuan amounts of time watching YouTube. At any given point during the day, if it was possible for me to watch YouTube, I would. For example, I would watch YouTube while:

* Making Food
* Eating Food
* Using the Bathroom
* Getting Ready for Work/School
* Getting Ready for Bed
* Talking to Friends Over the Internet
* Playing Video Games

Essentially, YouTube was the first thing that I opened when I woke up and the last thing that I closed before I went to bed. If I wasn't sleeping or actively working, I was watching YouTube.

Over time, I generated some degree of cognitive dissidence towards YouTube. I would often have desires to accomplish things, but I found that I never actually got around to doing them because the only thing that I ever did was watch YouTube. And it wasn't even that I was really enjoying what I was consuming. I promise you that no matter how much good content there is on YouTube, there is infinitely more vapid, useless, boring, and mind numbing material on there. You'll quickly find that you'll burn through all of the good stuff and will be left scrolling through mounds of trash.

At some point, I decided that YouTube was taking up too much of my time and I wanted to cut back. I started by making rules for myself about how much YouTube I could watch and when I could watch it. "Not while I'm eating, and not too late in the evening", or "'Only' two hours a day." I flip flopped several times with different self-imposed rules, but I always inevitably fell back into heavy YouTube usage. I was completely stuck in my habit and there was no series of mental gymnastic tricks that I could use to fish myself out.

Skip ahead to the middle of 2021; I was once again using YouTube with no self-imposed restrictions and was no better off than I had ever been before. It was around that time that I was reading in Matthew, in Jesus' Sermon on the Mount about how to deal with temptation: "If your right eye causes you to stumble, gouge it out and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to stumble, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to go into hell." [Matthew 5:29-30] In light of that advice, I decided to treat my relationship with YouTube for what it was: an addiction that I needed to cut out of my life entirely.

What does that mean? It means that I blocked YouTube on my phone, and on all of my computers. I forbade and prohibited myself from visiting it whatsoever. This was a drastic step, as at the time I felt as though going cold turkey was simply an impossibility. In an effort to increase my chances of success, I opened up Twitch to myself to help me "get off" YouTube. I found Twitch to be much less interesting than YouTube, but it worked to fill the long, silent void left by YouTube's departure. I started watching some different Twitch streamers, but I did what I could to only watch live streams (as opposed to prerecorded stream replays) as those where less like the edited, curated, and addicting YouTube videos that I was used to.

In those initial weeks, my YouTube consumption tendencies were strong. My default "NPC idle animation" was to plop down at my desk, open a browser, and type: "y<Enter>" which would autocomplete to "youtube.com" and take me to my curated homepage. I realized that this behaviour was as effortless as grabbing food out of the fridge when I was hungry: it took absolutely no thought, and was done before I realized that I was even doing it.

After two weeks or so, I found myself reflexively trying to navigate to YouTube less and less and Twitch was helping to fill the enormous gap. However, I knew that fully replacing YouTube with Twitch was no real improvement. Thankfully, for whatever reason, I found Twitch to be far less addicting. So, after a couple of months, I cut Twitch off as well, in the same way as I did YouTube: all at once. In place of that, I found one particular self-hosted video site that contained videos that were created by one guy. The key is that it was a very finite supply of video content. Once I had seen them all, that was it. Needless to say, I've watched most of his videos many many times, but they didn't have the same grab as YouTube once did.

I have just recently cut that limited video source out of my life as well. I am now finally and totally free of my video consumption addiction!

The journey that I have made was not perfectly clean; there were times that I fell back into YouTube for a day or two, and then quickly put the blockers back up when I realized that I had fallen off the rails. I now, however, consider myself to be stable. I don't reflexively open up YouTube, and I have much more control over what and when I watch. However, I don't think I can ever go back to watching YouTube, even in some limited capacity. I see myself like a recovering alcoholic. I'm no longer in the bar every night, or drinking myself silly at home, but if I even touch a drink with friends, I'll find myself right back where I started so fast it'll make my head spin. That's fine. There's so much to do and accomplish in life beyond watching YouTube. My freedom is definitely worth the cost.

### Common Objections I Get

* What?! No YouTube? You just mean that you watch drastically less of it than you used to right?

Nope, you heard right! No YouTube. None. At all. I'm not just trying to socially signal, or exaggerate my behaviour. I seriously watch NO YOUTUBE.

* What about YouTube Music? Are you against that too?

As far as I'm concerned, YouTube Music is the same thing as YouTube, and as such, I don't use it at all. I talk more about my relationship to streaming services for music and the like below.

* What about the good content on YouTube? It's not all bad you know, some of it is downright fantastic!

That's true! There is a lot of great content on YouTube. Plenty of videos that are genuinely funny, informative, well constructed, and/or entertaining. The reason I quit YouTube is not because there wasn't any good content there. I quit because it was taking up far too much of my time, and served as a ball and chain around my neck. As shocking as it may seem, not knowing about and not seeing the cream of the video crop is a sacrifice that is worth making for me because I am no longer a slave to YouTube and it's endless droning in my mind all day long. I won't see the latest and greatest video, but I also will have the freedom to choose how I spend my time.

* Why can't you just watch the good stuff and then stop?

Great question. I wish I could. The psychological manipulation that Google has implemented into the YouTube algorithm is so strong that I have never been able to successfully resist it. That sounds like an admission of weakness, but I think that that realization and its externalization into my behaviour is actually just an admission of my limitations. There are certain things in life that I simply cannot handle, so I have to go without.

* So what you're saying is that you just don't like YouTube?

Not at all, in fact, if anything, I like it far too much. I like it so much that watching it is my default behaviour.

* Can I just send you this one YouTube link? It's so funny/informative/well done that it'll be worth it. You don't have to watch it on your computer, since you have YouTube blocked, you can just come and watch it with me on my computer!

__sigh__ Sure; you can send me the link, but I won't watch it. I'll lie and tell you I watched it, since you clearly don't understand my position and trying to explain it again will do nothing but cause further tension in our relationship. If you drag me over to your screen, I will very reluctantly watch it with you, but I will be suffering the entire time, not laughing, or learning, or being entertained. You are compelling me to partake in an indulgence that I know will cause me harm. I'll spend the entire time doing my best not to pay too much attention to it and not to get too engrossed in it. If you value our relationship, PLEASE don't try to force me to watch YouTube. I know that it is hard to understand my position. Know that I'm not just saying that I quit YouTube to get attention, or brownie points, or to socially signal my moral superiority. I don't consider myself morally superior to you at all (especially after writing this particularly embarrassing piece). I genuinely do not watch YouTube. It is genuinely better for me not to watch it at all, in any capacity.

## Use Social Media

Social media is riddled with problems, to the degree that the discussion of said problems is common place in our culture. In particular, social media is:

* Taking up too much of our collective time.
* Shortening our attention spans.
* Interfering with our ability to cultivate genuine relationships with people in "real life".
* Causing us to compare ourselves to a unhealthy degree with other people.
* Used for interpersonal abuse (bullying, sexual predation of teens, etc).
* Spreading misinformation and censoring truth.
* Destructive to our emotional well-being.
* Designed to turn it's users into commodities for advertisers and intelligence agencies.

This list is far too significant for me to overlook and as a consequence, I've stayed away from most social media over the course of my life. However, I do have a few vestigial social media accounts from which I am in the process of fully separating myself. Specifically, I have:

* A Facebook Account - I opened it at more than a decade ago, before I was wise social media's flaws. I haven't closed it because I haven't yet worked up the gumption to cut off the acquaintances that I've connected with on there.
* A Strava Account - I recently opened this one. I decided that I could harness the psychological manipulation of social media to encourage me to exercise. It's worked well, but I've got this account in my sights for deletion, the any-good fallacy notwithstanding.
* A GitHub Account - Necessary for work. I've removed all my personal stuff from it in part because I'm not interested in giving GitHub Copilot more data to train with.

As for every other social media platform out there, I've either never made an account, or I've already deleted my account.

## Use My Cell Phone

To be clear, I do own a cell phone - it's a used (2014) iPhone 6 Plus that I bought back in April 2018 from a third party reseller. What I mean is that I don't use apps on my phone.

Most people install an extensive array of apps on their phone. After all, there's an app for everything! From banking, to mobile gaming, to news consumption, to company loyalty programs, to social media. To see everything that they have installed, they often have to scroll through page after page of apps.

I, on the other hand, have stripped down my iPhone to the bare minimum number of apps that I can get away with. In fact, there are only 9 apps on my phone that were not put there by Apple. Don't worry! It can still make and receive calls and text messages, that is what mobile phones were initially designed to do after all!

Because there is effectively nothing to do on my phone, it's not a constant distraction. In fact, I often just leave it at home. I don't need to bring it with me! It's such a freeing feeling!

## Play Video Games

Video games used to be a huge time sink for me. Along with watching YouTube, they were the only other thing that I spent my time doing. My console of choice was my computer, so I spent a lot of time on games released through Steam. Like with YouTube, I built up a sense of cognitive dissidence towards video games. I would play them when I had a bit more energy, and would try to frame the experience in my mind as an accomplishment. I was building something, or practicing something, or learning something. But I came to realize that everything that I was building, practicing, and learning was limited in practical application to the games themselves, making the whole endeavor meaningless.

After university, I drifted away from playing video games and toward doing more productive things with my spare time. In fact, I went 15 months without playing any games at all. Unlike my relationship with YouTube, I haven't fully decided if I am going to permanently and irrevocably cut video games out of my life or not. The reason for that is that they play an important role in bonding with some of my friends, especially those that live far away. However, I have cut back by more than 99% of my past levels of play.

As a self-humbling exercise, here's a list of the top 10 games (of my total 116 games purchased through Steam) by total play time:

* 3,567 Hours - Counter Strike: Global Offensive
*   980 Hours - Civilization V
*   845 Hours - Planetary Annihilation
*   206 Hours - Stellaris
*   181 Hours - Terraria
*   118 Hours - FTL: Faster Than Light
*   103 Hours - Hammerwatch
*    82 Hours - CivCity: Rome
*    82 Hours - Civilization VI
*    81 Hours - Total War: Shogun 2

That's 6,245 hours in just 10 games. If you add up all of the hours I've amassed in the other 106 Steam games, the total comes to 7,171 hours. This does not factor in any time that I've spent in Minecraft, which is considerable, but also unmeasurable. My best estimate would put it at at least 4,500 hours. Bringing our grand total to 11,671 hours. That's more than 486 consecutive days of nothing but video games. That's 4/3 of a year, completely lost.

I cannot even fathom how much better off my life would be if I had invested, even a portion of that time into something productive. At the end of my life, I will have to stand before my Creator and give an account of how I spent my life. Thank God for his grace, for I have no excuse for this colossal waste.

## Pay Any Attention to the News

Extra! Extra! Read all about it! I ignore the news!

As human beings, our curiosity drives us to want to know about what is going on around us. For most people, this means hooking themselves into their favourite news outlet. But regardless of the means of ingestion (news app, newspaper, podcast, etc), I find the news to be toxic to me mentally, emotionally, spiritually, and financially.

### Breaking (down the) News

Despite the clever guise that the news is here to inform, it is not. Most news outlets are privately held institutions. They have an obligation to their shareholders to turn a profit. Unfortunately, presenting the news is only partially correlated with profit. In order to be as profitable as possible, the news needs to encourage people to sign up, give up their personal information, and spend a considerable amount of time absorbing their content everyday so that ads can be repetitively and unsurreptitiously stuffed into their eyeballs.

Like almost every other company competing in the digital sphere, news companies capture attention by toying with human psychology. They do this by twisting their articles to evoke strong emotions, like fear and anger. These emotions cripple human cognition by compelling people to gather more information, either to fuel their rage or to assuage their fear. This is optimal for the news companies, because it maximizes their opportunity to advertise.

The news never closes a big, breaking story. Even a story which could be comfortably summarized in a handful of sentences is drawn out through the chronicling of many near identical witnesses testimonies, the exhortations of pompous "experts", and the regurgitation of the public's reaction through the recitation of trending tweets and opinion pieces. This turns a small tale into an epic. In this way people are compelled to stay tuned indefinitely in the hopes that they'll hear some new, miniscule piece of information.

Unbiased news is incredibly hard to come by. Some institutions claim to strive for this highest of Cronkitic standards, but ask the man on the street, and he'll tell you that MSNBC is a liberal outlet, Fox News is a conservative outlet, and Buzzfeed is not a news outlet at all. Thus, most news companies have siloed audiences - those that subscribe to the bias presented by their organization of choice. Furthermore, the discussion within these ideological ecosystems is more focused on insulting those on the other side than actually clarifying the details of the day's current events.

In summary, I don't pay attention to the news because:

* The News Uses Anger and Fear to Hold Your Attention

I don't want to feel afraid or enraged all of the time.

* The News Profits by Selling Your Attention to Advertisers

Being someone who works in the advertising industry on the technology that is used, I can speak directly to this one. Since day one, it has always amazed me how much money advertising brings in for those who practice it. You may think that ads don't work on you, but that's what everyone thinks and far too many people are wrong. I don't want to ads and their content taking up residence in the most sacred space I have: my mind.

* The News Has No Respect for Your Time

The longer a news network can get you to stay on their site, the more money they make. This has an unbelievable opportunity cost for you as a news consumer. The 24-hour news cycle will never willingly let you pursue your hobbies and interests. The best way to break free from their death grip is abruptly and entirely.

* The News is Not Relevant

Far too often, the stories that come up on the news are ones that will only be of interest to a very small, niche group of people. For lack of a better phrase: Who cares!?

* The News Has No Substance

If you are truly curious about what is happening in the world, the news is perhaps the worst way to learn about it. Unbiased informative content is not what they are motivated to deliver.

* The News Has No Direct Connection to Your Life

The news discusses large, vague stories that are disconnected from your daily reality. As such, they have no impact on how you live your life. If you really want to know what's going on in a realm that's relevant to you, go talk to the people you care about: your family, friends, and co-workers.

For these reasons, I do not watch the news on TV, I do not read the newspaper, I do not listen to the news on the radio, I do not read news or news adjacent websites, and I do not listen to news related podcasts.

### Addressing the Critics

* What if something really important happens? Don't you want to know about it?

Do you remember what the breaking news was a month ago? You might be able to recall one, maybe two headlines. Do you remember the details of the articles? If you are like most people, you probably can't. If the news was so incredibly important, don't you think that you'd remember the details longer than a few days? My philosophy is that if a news item is still relevant a month after its initial publication, it might be important.

Now for the greatest part of my news-ignoring system: unless you live in an Amish colony, the people around you are talking about the news. This makes other people like a filter for your news intake. You only get the most important news, and you get it in a few condensed sentences! Trust me, nothing important will pass you by. If push comes to shove, the government will plaster pamphlets on every door, wall, and lamppost to get your attention. You can't escape knowing about the most important news if you try!

* But don't you want to be informed about the world around you?

Absolutely! I just don't believe that the news is actually interested in informing me.

* The news channel is a great source of background noise. Isn't it nice to just have it running in the background while you work? You don't have to pay attention to it.

I disagree with the entire premise. There is no need to fill each and every waking instant with noise. Peace and quiet is a wonderful thing to be savoured, not squandered. When I do want to work to some background noise, music is always a far better option.

## Own a Television

I don't own a television because I have no need for one. I don't have a cable/satellite subscription and I don't use television/movie streaming services (see below). I don't watch sports (see below), and I don't watch YouTube (see above).

## Watch Sports

Sports seem to be the modern tribal game that humans play. We arbitrarily choose sides, then demonize those who arbitrarily chose differently from us. If our team loses, we flip out and vandalize our cities. We get so invested in the minutiae of the sport that we form extremely strong opinions about things that we have no control over, like which player should be drafted by which team and how much they should get paid.

All of this just seems to me to be a toxic combination for body, mind, and soul. I have no desire to participate in that madness, so I don't watch sports.

## Subscribe to Television/Movie/Music Streaming Services

## Go to Movie Theatres
## Drink Alcohol or Smoke Marijuana
## Drink Coffee/Tea or Consume Caffeine
## Eat out at Restaurants
## Consume Premade Frozen Food

## Drink Pop/Juice/Smoothies

These drinks are full of sugar/aspartame, which isn't healthy. I've never gotten into the habit of drinking them, so I never crave them. As far as I can tell, there's no downside to avoidance. On occasion (maybe once a year) I'll have a glass if I'm out with friends, but that's it.

## Own a Car

This is the one abstention that I am most likely to change at some point in the future.

At the moment, I live in an apartment in the downtown core of my city. I'm close to a vast cycle track network, and as such, I ride my bike everywhere I need to go. Given the cost to own your own car - the purchase of a vehicle, insurance, gas, oil, regular maintenance, parking, and licensing - I feel no desire to own one. I do have a driver's license, so when I need a car, I rent one. It costs far less and is still very convenient. When I move out of the core, I'm sure that one of the first purchases that I'll make is a car.

## Travel

I have a very unusual belief about travel. One which I have never explicitly gotten agreement on from anybody else.

> You can get 90% of the value of going on a trip for 0% of the effort of going on said trip.

That's not to say that I universally refuse to travel, just that I'm very choosy about when and if I travel. Let me explain:

Many people are self-described world travelers. They love the idea of going to new places, seeing new things, meeting new people, eating new food, and basking in new cultures. Accordingly, they have a long list of places that they'd love to go to.

To me, others often overlook the true cost of going a such a trip. Perhaps the subjective costs are smaller to them than they are to me, but I cannot overcome the burdens imposed by travel. In particular, when travelling, you have to:

* Decide when/where to go.
* Decide who to go with.
* Schedule the trip for yourself and others.
* Meticulously pack all of the items you will need while you are gone.
* Take time off of work/school to accommodate the travel, thereby breaking your routine.
* Pay for the flight, rental car, food, lodging, travel insurance, attraction admission, etc.
* Get on the plane and fly.
* Cope with jet-lag.
* Experience the joys of airport screening, luggage handling, etc.
* Clean up after the trip. (laundry, reacclimatization to routine, etc.)

Why do all of those things when you can experience 90% of the trip online through writings, photos, and videos? Seeing the Eiffel Tower in person requires a lot of work! Seeing what it looks like, or watching someone walk around it is trivially simple on the internet. Sure, it's not exactly the same as seeing it in person, but experiencing it virtually is certainly enough to get 90% of the real experience!

I haven't even remotely convinced you have I? That's fine, that was never the goal. Have fun on your next trip; I'll enjoy my routine and stay-cation!

## Camp
## Own a Pet
## Gamble
## Make Purchases with a Credit Card
## Live Beyond my Financial Means
## Collect any Kind of Pseudo-Financial "Points"
