```
//      //                                       
 //  //    //////  //      //      //  //////    
  //    //    //  //      //      //  //    //   
 //    //    //    //  //  //  //    //    //    
//      //////      //      //      //    //     

```
=> ../index.gmi Home

# Tell Us About Yourself

=> ./blog_home.gmi Back to Blog

Introductions. I'm sure that you're familiar with them. Someone new has just started at the office and the boss suggests that everybody go around give a brief summary of themselves. "Tell us your name, what your role is here at the company, and something interesting about yourself."

I used to hate doing these. What is there to say?

Recently however, I've found a great way to introduce myself. It goes something like this:

"Hi, I'm Nolan! I'm probably the most boring person you'll ever meet because it's easier to describe me by the things that I don't do, rather than the things I do."

Then I pick one of the following truthful abstentions and expand upon it a little.

If you'll humour me for just a minute, I'd love to share some of these excercies in self restraint that I've tried to pick up over my life. Most of them fit into just a four main categories.

## I Don't Consume Media

This means that I do not:

* Watch YouTube/Twitch
* Use Social Media
* Use My Cell Phone
* Play Video Games
* Consume the News
* Own a Television
* Watch Sports
* Subscribe to Television/Movie/Music Streaming Services
* Go to Movie Theatres

## I Don't Consume Most Food and Drink

This means that I do not:

* Drink Alcohol or Smoke Marijuana
* Drink Coffee or Consume Caffine
* Eat out at Restaurants
* Consume Premade Frozen Food
* Drink Pop/Tea/Juice/Smoothies

## I Don't Like Adventures

This means that I do not:

* Own a Car
* Travel
* Camp
* Own a Pet

## I Don't Like Risk

This means that I do not:

* Gamble
* Make Purchases with a Credit Card
* Live Beyond my Financial Means

# Why???

That's a great question, and a very natural followup that I get after I make an my personal introduction to someone. In short, I recognize that each of the above activities have a cost associated with them, which I have decided is not worth the benefit that they provide.

Let me be more specific, and discuss these on an abstention by abstention basis:

## Watch YouTube/Twitch
## Use Social Media
## Use My Cell Phone
## Play Video Games
## Consume the News
## Own a Television
## Watch Sports
## Subscribe to Television/Movie/Music Streaming Services
## Go to Movie Theatres
## Drink Alcohol or Smoke Marijuana
## Drink Coffee or Consume Caffine
## Eat out at Restaurants
## Consume Premade Frozen Food
## Drink Pop/Tea/Juice/Smoothies
## Own a Car

## Travel

I have a very unusual belief about travel. One which I have never explicity gotten agreement on from anybody else.

> You can get 90% of the value of going on a trip for 0% of the effort of going on said trip.

Let me explain:

Many people are self-described world travelers. They love the idea of going to new places, seeing new things, meeting new people, eating new food, and basking in new cultures. Accordingly, they have a long list of places that they'd love to go to.

To me, others often overlook the true cost of going a such a trip. Perhaps the subjective costs are smaller to them than they are to me, but I cannot overcome the burdens imposed by travel. In particular, when travelling, you have to:

* Decide when/where to go.
* Decide who to go with.
* Schedule the trip for yourself and others.
* Meticulously pack all of the items you will need while you are gone.
* Take time off of work/school to accomodate the travel, thereby breaking your routine.
* Pay for the flight, rental car, food, lodging, travel insurance, attraction admission, etc.
* Get on the plane and fly.
* Cope with jetlag.
* Experience the joys of airport screening, luggage handling, etc.
* Clean up after the trip. (laundry, reaclimatization to routine, etc.)

Why do all of those things, when, you can experience 90% of the trip online through writings, photos, and videos? Seeing the Eiffel Tower in person is a lot of work! Seeing what it looks like, or watching someone walk around it is trivially simple on the internet. Sure, it's not exactly the same as seeing it in person, but you definitely just got 90% of the experience of seeing it in person without ever leaving your home!

I haven't even remotely convinced you have I? That's fine, that was never the goal. Have fun on your next trip; I'll enjoy my routine and stay-cation!

## Camp
## Own a Pet
## Gamble
## Make Purchases with a Credit Card
## Live Beyond my Financial Means
