=> ../index.gmi Home
=> blog_home.gmi Back to Blogs
=> bible_bins_home.gmi Bible Bins Home

# My Personal Statement of Faith

As a Christian, it is of the upmost importance to be clear about what you believe, if for no other reason than so that you can be clear when giving "an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have." [1 Peter 3:15, Colossians 4:6]

## God

God is real, living, active, and good. God is the Father figure in the trinity of God.

### God is Real

He's not a state of mind or a figment of man's imagination. He is the Creator of the entire universe including human beings.

### God is Living

God cannot be abstracted away with the latest development of scientific reason or philosophical revelation.

### God is Active

God did not just set the universe in motion and step away. He is actively involved on Earth, both for Christians and non-Christians, eager to draw close in relationship to all who are willing.

### God is Good

God has never made a single mistake. Everything that he made was good. God is perfectly holy, divine, and sovereign.

## Jesus

Jesus is fully human and fully God - the Son in the trinity. He lived a perfect, sinnless life here on Earth roughly 2,000 years ago. At the pinnacle of his ministry, he sacrificed himself to condemnation and death on a cross for the forgiveness of all of mankind's sins. On the third day, he was resurected from the dead and appeared to many of his desciples before he ascended into heaven.

## The Holy Spirit

The Holy Spirit is the third person in the trinity. He has been present at various times throughout both the Old and New Testaments, but was formally given to all Christ-followers on the Day of Pentacost. The Holy Spirit lives within Christians. He serves to convict, encourage, and guide all believers.

## Sin

When God made man, he made him perfect and without defect, but he also gave man the freewill to choose whether or not to obey. Man chose to disobey God in the garden of Eden, and as a consequence, sin entered into the world. All mankind is fallen as a result, there is no one who has never sinned, except Jesus Christ.

## The Church

As a part of His ministry on Earth, Jesus started the church and ordained it under the apostle Peter. It is a collection of people who are together working on their relationships with God, each other, and the world as a whole.

## The Bible

The Bible is the word of God. It is both divinely inspiried and written. The authors of the Bible were not merely vaguely inspired by God, but each and every word was written by God through those authors. The Bible forms one of the primary ways in which God communicates with us.

## Prayer

## Salvation

## Meaning of Life
