=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Budgeting

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog
=> ../linux_home.gmi Back to the Software I Use

Regardless of who you are, how much money you make, and how much money you spend: you need a dynamic monthly budget! That was one of the key takeaways that Dave Ramsay always pushed on the listeners of his radio show and I happen to completely agree. How can you possibly spend frugally, save wisely, and give generously if you don't know how your money is allocated? 

Dave offers a piece of proprietary, web-based, expensive, SaaS accounting software on his site called EveryDollar. Now maybe you're ok with giving Dave all of your financial data, but I'm not. So instead I use an extensible, commandline based, FLOSS tool called Ledger.

## Installation

On Arch GNU/Linux:

> sudo pacman -S ledger

There are many reporting capabilities built into ledger which can produce graphical output. If you want to see these graphs, you'll need to install GNU Plot as well:

> sudo pacman -S gnuplot

## Usage

Ledger is an incredibly powerful and extensible piece of double-entry accounting software! The best part of using ledger is that all of your budgeting data is stored locally in plain text! To start, define some different accounts where money can go in a plain text file:

> ; Commodity Types
> commmodity $
> 
> ; Income Sources
> account Income:My_Employer
> 
> ; Assets Stores
> account Assets:Rent_Fund
> account Assets:Groceries_Fund
> 
> ; Expense Accounts
> account Expenses:Rent
> account Expenses:Groceries

This defines "$" as a commodity that ledger will keep track of and several accounts from which money can come and go. The magic of double-entry accounting is that every dollar must come from an account and go to an account. No transaction is complete without a source and a destination. Recording transactions is just as simple as setting up accounts. For example:

> 2020/12/13 Paycheque from Employer
> 	Assets:Rent_Fund			$2,300.00
> 	Income:My_Employer
> 
> 2020/12/13 Paycheque from Employer
> 	Assets:Groceries_Fund		$169.12
> 	Income:My_Employer
> 
> 2020/12/15 Walmart for Groceries
> 	Expenses:Groceries			$123.45
> 	Assets:Groceries_Fund

This represents three different transactions that took place on December 13, 2020 when I got paid and on December 15, 2020 when I bought groceries. Pretty straight forward right? Now, if I want to see how my various accounts are doing, I just run:

> ledger -f my_ledger_file --pedantic -E bal

Which gives something like this:

> $2,345.67  Assets
> $2,300.00    Rent_Fund
> $45.67       Groceries_Fund
> $123.45    Expenses
> $0.00        Rent
> $123.45      Groceries
> $-2,469.12 Income
> $-2,469.12   My_Employer

Every dollar is accounted for! It's clear where every dollar came from and where every dollar went.

There are many many other features built into ledger that I haven't touched on. For example, there is a feature that allows you to graphically see how your account balances have changed over time. If you are interested in learning more about ledger, including how to view report plots, check out the manual! (The plotting function is described in section 6.4.2.)

=> docs/report.txt Ledger Reporting Script
=> docs/ledger3.pdf Ledger Manual

=> ../linux_home.gmi Back to the Software I Use
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog
