=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Making Arch Linux Usable

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog
=> ../linux_home.gmi Back to the Software I Use

At this point, if you followed the basic installation guide I wrote, you should have a minimal installation of Arch Linux installed. Let's make it more useable by adding a new user, installing a basic X server (to give you a cursor), and an AUR helper.

## Installation

1. Login as the root user with the password you set.

2. Connect to the internet, either with an ethernet cable or with Network Manager:
```
    nmcli
```
will show you your current status. If your WIFI device is turned off in software:
```
    nmcli radio all on
```
will turn it on. Then:
```
    nmtui
```
will give you an interface to use to connect to WIFI.

3. Add a user account and give them SUDO privileges (without requiring a password).
```
    useradd -m -g wheel (username)
		passwd (username)
		sudo vim /etc/sudoers
```
Uncomment the line:
```
    %wheel ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: ALL
```
which is near the bottom of the file.

4. Make pacman more fun! Add the line "ILoveCandy" to and uncomment "Color" in /etc/pacman.conf.

5. Install some basic fonts and font utilities:
```
    pacman -S noto-fonts fontconfig
```

6. Grab some more basic packages:
```
    pacman -S git archlinux-keyring man-db
```

7. Login as the user you created and make the basic directories that you prefer: (remember "exit" to logout)
```
    mkdir .config Documents Downloads Pictures Videos scripts software
```
I like to add the scripts folder to my path. To do so, add: "export $PATH:$HOME/scripts" to .bashrc.

8. Install an AUR helper. There are many of these, but I like yay:
```
    cd software
		git clone https://aur.archlinux.org/yay.git
		cd yay
		makepkg -sri
```

9. Install an X server!
```
    sudo pacman -S xorg-server xorg-xinit xorg-xdpyinfo xorg-xrandr xcompmgr xwallpaper xorg-xsetroot xorg-xrdb
```
Check which video card you have with:
```
    lspci -v | grep -A1 -e BGA -e 3D
```
Then look to the Arch Wiki to get the name of the driver to install with pacman.
=> https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/Xorg#Driver_installation Arch Wiki Video Driver List
WARNING: I've had bad experiences with the open source NVIDIA drivers, I recommend using the proprietary ones.

10. Configure the X server. Use xrandr (or nvidia-settings) to configure multiple monitor setups. First get the monitor names with:
```
    xrandr -q
```
then align them, for example:
```
    xrandr --output DP-1 --primary --auto --output DVI-D-1 --auto --left-of DP1 --output HDMI-1 --auto --right-of DP-1
```
I prefer to store multiple configurations with autorandr:
```
    sudo pacman -S autorandr
		autorandr -s (name of config)
```
Then a saved config can be restored with:
```
    autorandr -l (name of config)
```
Set the wallpaper with xwallpaper:
```
    xwallpaper --zoom (a picture)
```
I put that in my .xinitrc so I always have a wallpaper. I want the X server to automatically start when I login. To do this, add the following to the .bashrc:
```
    if [[ "$(tty)" = "/dev/tty1" ]]; then
		    startx
		fi
```
I don't like my screen blanking after a period of inactivity, so I disable that feature. To do so, add the following to .xinitrc:
```
		xset s off
    xset -dmps
		xset s noblank
```
I want support for transparency, even if I don't use it all the time. To .xinitrc, add:
```
    xcompmgr -c &
```
I want my .Xresources file to be automatically sourced on startup. Add to .xinitrc:
```
    [[ -f ~/.Xresources ]] && xrdb -merge -I$HOME ~/.Xresources
```

=> ../linux_home.gmi Back to the Software I Use
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog
