=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Mathematics Software

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog
=> ../linux_home.gmi Back to the Software I Use

I tend to do a lot of math - it's kinda my thing. Inevitably, some problems require the touch of some numerical approximation, and when that is the case, there are a few pieces of software that scientists tend to fall back on:

* Mathematica
* Maple
* SageMath

When I was in university, I used Mathematica a little bit. I was curious about adding it to my home system after graduation only to discover that it is an expensive piece of proprietary software! Maple is similar. No way Hosea. Needless to say, when I discovered SageMath, I was completely sold:

> SageMath is a free open-source mathematics software system licensed under the GPL. It builds on top of many existing open-source packages: NumPy, SciPy, matplotlib, Sympy, Maxima, GAP, FLINT, R and many more. Access their combined power through a common, Python-based language or directly via interfaces and wrappers.
>
> Mission: Creating a viable free open source alternative to Magma, Maple, Mathematica, and Matlab.

Beautiful, and just what I wanted to hear!

=> https://www.sagemath.org SageMath Website

## Installation

On Arch GNU/Linux:

> sudo pacman -S sagemath sagemath-doc

## Usage

There are a number of ways to interact with SageMath and it's components, but I prefer to open up a terminal and type:

> sage

If I get stuck:

> manual()

Takes me to a local version of the documentation!

=> ../linux_home.gmi Back to the Software I Use
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog
