=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Web Browsing

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog
=> ../linux_home.gmi Back to the Software I Use

The modern web is stuffed to the brim with ads, trackers, Javascript, and bloated web apps, but there are still a few legitimate uses for it. Your web browser acts as a portal to both the brightest and darkest sides of humanity.

# HTTP

When browsing "normal" websites, that is, those that communicate over the HTTP(S) protocol, I use a vim-based browser called qutebrowser.

## Installation

On Arch GNU/Linux:

> sudo pacman -S qutebrowser

I would seriously recommend installing Brave's ad/tracker blocker for qutebrowser. You can use it in conjunction with a custom /etc/hosts file to block a huge swath of the garbage out there. To install Brave's ad/tracker blocker:

> sudo pacman -S python-adblock

## Usage

Qutebrowser is the best browser I have ever used because it allows you to navigate the modern web without using a mouse! The bindings are vim-based, which is fantastic and work as you might expect.

* j - scrolls down
* k - scrolls up
* h - scrolls left
* l - scrolls right
* J - changes to the next tab
* K - changes to the previous tab
* H - goes back through history
* L - goes forward through history
* r - reloads a page
* o - opens a page or uses a search engine within the current tab
* O - open a page or uses a search engine in a new tab
* d - closes a tab
* i - enters insert mode
* ESC - enters normal mode
* f - highlights clickable links

### Link Selection

It's worth talking a little bit more about how link traversal works in qutebrower. When you are using the keyboard, you can highlight all the links on the page by pressing f. Every link will then be assigned a sequence of characters or a word which, if typed, will cause qutebrower to follow said link.

Of course you can use a mouse if you want to. Scrolling and clicking works in the same way as it would with any other browser. But why would you want to do that?!

# Gemini

I use another protocol to browse websites on the internet called gemini. You are probably familiar with the concept that web addresses start with "https://". Well, not all web addresses start with "http" or "https". There are sites that start with "gemini://". Such sites are called gemini capsules. I host this website on with the gemini protocol as well!

Now you can't visit gemini capsules with a regular web browser like qutebrowser, FireFox, or Brave. You need a different browser which supports the gemini protocol. The browser that I've gone with for this purpose is amfora.

## Installation

On Arch GNU/Linux:

> sudo pacman -S amfora

## Usage

@@@ Todo

=> ../linux_home.gmi Back to the Software I Use
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog
