=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Christian Living

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## We must Live as Christ Did

This is a formal Bible verse that backs up the Christian idea that we are supposted to live like Jesus did.

> Whoever claims to live in him must live as Jesus did. - 1 John 2:6

## All Christians are Called to Resist the Devil

We are all called to resist the devil. Keep in mind that you are not alone in resisting the devil. All other Christians are resisting him as well.

> Resist him, standing firm in the faith, because you know that the family of believers throughout the world is undergoing the same kind of sufferings. - 1 Peter 5:9

## Always be Prepared to Share about Christ

All christians must be ready to share with anyone why they act the way they act. They must also be ready to share why they have such unbounded joy and hope. This is one of the core responsibilities of a Christian.

> But in your hearts revere Christ as Lord. Always be prepared to give an answer to everyone who asks you to give the reason for the hope that you have. But do this with gentleness and respect, keeping a clear conscience, so that those who speak maliciously against your good behavior in Christ may be ashamed of their slander. - 1 Peter 3:15-16

## Christians are Called to be Compassionate, Kind, Humble, Gentle and Patient

Again, since we are called to live like Christ while on earth, we should adopt these Godly traits.

> Therefore, as God’s chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness and patience. Bear with each other and forgive one another if any of you has a grievance against someone. Forgive as the Lord forgave you. And over all these virtues put on love, which binds them all together in perfect unity. - Colossians 3:12-14

## Christians Should Focus on Heavenly Things

Since we are born-again christians, we should focus on spiritual things instead of things that will waste away with this world.

> Set your minds on things above, not on earthly things. For you died, and your life is now hidden with Christ in God. - Colossians 3:2-3

## Contentment is One of the Greatest Sources of Strength for a Christian

One of Paul's "superpowers" was his legendary contentment. Gaining the ability to be content in all situations is something all christians should strive towards.

> Do everything without grumbling or arguing, so that you may become blameless and pure, “children of God without fault in a warped and crooked generation.” Then you will shine among them like stars in the sky as you hold firmly to the word of life. And then I will be able to boast on the day of Christ that I did not run or labor in vain. But even if I am being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and service coming from your faith, I am glad and rejoice with all of you. So you too should be glad and rejoice with me. - Philippians 2:14-18

> I am not saying this because I am in need, for I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need, and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty or in want. I can do all this through him who gives me strength. - Philippians 4:11-13

## The Armour of God

This is a summary of how to live the Christian life. This describes how to arm yourself, work with your fellow Christians, and stand against the devil.

> Finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God, so that you can take your stand against the devil’s schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realms. Therefore put on the full armor of God, so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground, and after you have done everything, to stand. Stand firm then, with the belt of truth buckled around your waist, with the breastplate of righteousness in place, and with your feet fitted with the readiness that comes from the gospel of peace. In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God. - Ephesians 6:10-17

## God Has a Plan for Us

Before we were even born God had a plan made up for us to follow. This plan is designed to make sure we have as much potential to live a righteous life as possible.

> For we are God’s handiwork, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do. - Ephesians 2:10

## As Christians We Must be Servants

This is the story of Jesus washing the feet of the disciples. The story of Jesus washing the disciples' feet is a great example of servitude and the attitude that Christians need to adopt in this world.

> John 13:1-17

## Christians Worship in the Spirit

Christians worship in the spirit rather than in a physical space or to a physical object/being. This was new to the jews but Jesus made it clear that this was what God expected of humans.

> You Samaritans worship what you do not know; we worship what we do know, for salvation is from the Jews. Yet a time is coming and has now come when the true worshipers will worship the Father in the Spirit and in truth, for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is spirit, and his worshipers must worship in the Spirit and in truth.” - John 4:22-24

## Pray to God in a State of Humility

Christians must teach themselves to not be in a state of pridefullness when talking with God. Be humble and remember who you are talking to and who you are.

> To some who were confident of their own righteousness and looked down on everyone else, Jesus told this parable: “Two men went up to the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood by himself and prayed: ‘God, I thank you that I am not like other people—robbers, evildoers, adulterers—or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week and give a tenth of all I get.’
>
> “But the tax collector stood at a distance. He would not even look up to heaven, but beat his breast and said, ‘God, have mercy on me, a sinner.’
>
> “I tell you that this man, rather than the other, went home justified before God. For all those who exalt themselves will be humbled, and those who humble themselves will be exalted.” - Luke 18: 9-14

## The Lord's Prayer

This is the lord's prayer. It is a perfect example of prayer and it works as an exellent starting point for christians looking to pray in an ideal manner.

> He said to them, “When you pray, say:
> 
> “‘Father,
> hallowed be your name,
> your kingdom come.
> Give us each day our daily bread.
> Forgive us our sins,
>     for we also forgive everyone who sins against us.
> And lead us not into temptation.’” - Luke 11:2-4

## The Sabbath is for Our Benefit

The Sabbath is meant to help us keep rested so we can focus on God and living our most righteous lives throughout the week. Following it solely out of "religious requirement" is missing the point.

> Then he said to them, “The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. - Mark 2:27

## The Great Commission

This section is where Jesus tells us all to go and evangelize across the whole world. This is an essential part of being a christian.

> Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And surely I am with you always, to the very end of the age.” - Matthew 28:19-20

## The Basis for Communion

This is the section where communion is first described by Christ at the last supper. This is why we always remember what Christ did for us when we partake in communion at church.

> While they were eating, Jesus took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to his disciples, saying, “Take and eat; this is my body.”
>
> Then he took a cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, “Drink from it, all of you. This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. - Matthew 26:26-28

## Christians are Supposed to Submit to God and Their Leaders

Our job as Christians is not to rebel agaist the powers over us. But to obey both them and God.

> Tell us then, what is your opinion? Is it right to pay the imperial tax to Caesar or not?”
>
> But Jesus, knowing their evil intent, said, “You hypocrites, why are you trying to trap me? Show me the coin used for paying the tax.” They brought him a denarius, and he asked them, “Whose image is this? And whose inscription?”
>
> “Caesar’s,” they replied.
>
> Then he said to them, “So give back to Caesar what is Caesar’s, and to God what is God’s.” - Matthew 22:17-21

## Christians can Only be Godly and Righteous if They Act as Servants

It is important for Christians to serve others. Servitude is one of the greatest ways to show love. This is very imporant as we know that love summarizes the law and what we must do in our daily lives as christians.

> Jesus called them together and said, “You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their high officials exercise authority over them. Not so with you. Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant, and whoever wants to be first must be your slave— just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many.” - Matthew 20:25-28

## The Christian Life's Advantages are Hard to Convince Others of

The Christian life is better than the non-Christian life, but Christians cannot empirically prove that this is so to non-Christians. Non-Christians perceive the Christian life to be foolishness. Only through the Spirit are these truths revealed.

> For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. For it is written:
>
> “I will destroy the wisdom of the wise;
>     the intelligence of the intelligent I will frustrate.” - 1 Corinthians 1:18-19

> Jews demand signs and Greeks look for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified: a stumbling block to Jews and foolishness to Gentiles, - 1 Corinthians 1:22-23

> The person without the Spirit does not accept the things that come from the Spirit of God but considers them foolishness, and cannot understand them because they are discerned only through the Spirit. - 1 Corinthians 2:14

## Spreading the Good News Can Make Life Worth Living

Paul highlights that much of a person's life's worth can come from answering the call to evangelize. However, a person's "race" in life may be different, and thus you may be called to do any number of things.

> However, I consider my life worth nothing to me; my only aim is to finish the race and complete the task the Lord Jesus has given me—the task of testifying to the good news of God’s grace. - Acts 20:24

## Christians Should Not Judge Others

No Christian should ever judge another person. Christians have the unique position of knowing that we all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Meaning that no single person can stand above others and claim they are superior and therefore can cast judgement. Judgement should be left to God.

> “Do not judge, or you too will be judged. For in the same way you judge others, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured to you.
>
> “Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother’s eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye? How can you say to your brother, ‘Let me take the speck out of your eye,’ when all the time there is a plank in your own eye? You hypocrite, first take the plank out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother’s eye. - Matthew 7:1-5

## Christians Must Continually Forgive Others

Forgive others regardless of how many times they commit the same sin.

> So watch yourselves.
> 
> “If your brother or sister sins against you, rebuke them; and if they repent, forgive them. Even if they sin against you seven times in a day and seven times come back to you saying ‘I repent,’ you must forgive them.” - Luke 17:3-4

## Marriage is not a Requirement for a Christian

Marriage is a blessing from God, but it's not mandatory to get married. In fact, God blesses both married and single people.

> Jesus replied, “Not everyone can accept this word, but only those to whom it has been given. For there are eunuchs who were born that way, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by others—and there are those who choose to live like eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. The one who can accept this should accept it.” - Matthew 19:11-12

## Not all Idols are Physical

God, through the prophet Ezekiel, directly states that the Israelites have set up non-physical idols in their lives. Idolatry is something that many modern Christians think is no big deal, since they don't literally bow before a statue, but idols are anything that you put ahead of God in your life, physical or not.

> “Son of man, these men have set up idols in their hearts and put wicked stumbling blocks before their faces. Should I let them inquire of me at all? - Ezekiel 14:3

## There is No Prosperity Gospel

Solomon confirms that, at times, the righteous get what the wicked deserve and the wicked get what the righteous deserve. If God had promised to reward us directly and in proportion to our righteousness, this would not happen.

> There is something else meaningless that occurs on earth: the righteous who get what the wicked deserve, and the wicked who get what the righteous deserve. This too, I say, is meaningless. So I commend the enjoyment of life, because there is nothing better for a person under the sun than to eat and drink and be glad. Then joy will accompany them in their toil all the days of the life God has given them under the sun. - Ecclesiastes 8:14-15

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
