=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Faith

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## What is Faith?

The author of Hebrews defines it perfectly.

> Now faith is confidence in what we hope for and assurance about what we do not see. - Hebrews 11:1

## Have Faith that the Bible is God's Divinely Inspired Word

There is no way to prove with certainty that the Bible is divinely inspired; this is a consequence of the fact that there is no way to prove that God exists. But, both Peter and Paul tell us that the Bible was not written out of the imagination of its human authors, but was rather completely divinely inspired, from cover to cover. This is a fact that needs to be taken on faith. Once we have taken that on faith, we can use the Bible as an instruction manual on how to live our lives in a way which is pleasing to God.

> Above all, you must understand that no prophecy of Scripture came about by the prophet’s own interpretation of things. For prophecy never had its origin in the human will, but prophets, though human, spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. - 2 Peter 1:20-21

> All Scripture is God-breathed and is useful for teaching, rebuking, correcting and training in righteousness, so that the servant of God may be thoroughly equipped for every good work. - 2 Timothy 3:16-17

## Faith is a Path to Righteousness

God spoke to Abram and promised him things that would not necessarily take place in his lifetime. Abram's belief in God and what God promised was credited to him as righteousness. In the same way, Noah was seen as righteous by God by his faith.

> Abram believed the Lord, and he credited it to him as righteousness. - Genesis 15:6

> This is the account of Noah and his family.
>
> Noah was a righteous man, blameless among the people of his time, and he walked faithfully with God. - Genesis 6:9

## Faith in God is Reliable

Ezra boasted about God's power to the king of Persia and as a result, was forced to depend on God for protection on his journey rather than the king's soldiers.

> I was ashamed to ask the king for soldiers and horsemen to protect us from enemies on the road, because we had told the king, "The gracious hand of our God is on everyone who looks to him, but his great anger is against all who forsake him." So we fasted and petitioned our God about this, and he answered our prayer. - Ezra 8:22-23

## Abraham's Faith Saved Him, Not His Works

Paul makes very clear in his letter to the Romans that the commonly held view by the Jews that Abraham was simply righteous enough to save himself is wrong. Abraham's faith in God saved him.

> What does Scripture say? “Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness.” - Romans 4:3

## A Child's Complete, Trusting Faith Saves

There were many proud adults who came to Jesus throughout his ministry asking Him how they could be saved. Jesus pointed to the little children around him for the answer. Just as a child completely and totally trusts in their parents for their needs to be met, so to must we trust in God for our needs and our salvation.

> Jesus said, “Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of heaven belongs to such as these.” - Matthew 19:14

>People were bringing little children to Jesus for him to place his hands on them, but the disciples rebuked them. When Jesus saw this, he was indignant. He said to them, “Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. Truly I tell you, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will never enter it.” - Mark 10:13-15
 
> But Jesus called the children to him and said, “Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these. Truly I tell you, anyone who will not receive the kingdom of God like a little child will never enter it.” - Luke 18:16-18
 
> Then he said to them, “Whoever welcomes this little child in my name welcomes me; and whoever welcomes me welcomes the one who sent me. For it is the one who is least among you all who is the greatest.” - Luke 9:48

## The Holy Spirit, Through Faith, Allows Us to Speak Boldly

Peter and John were both uneducated men. Yet the Spirit gave them a profound understanding of the Scriptures and a boldness in sharing the message of the gospel. As a consequence, the Sanhedrin was astonished at how articulate they were about their faith in Jesus.

> Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them: “Rulers and elders of the people! If we are being called to account today for an act of kindness shown to a man who was lame and are being asked how he was healed, then know this, you and all the people of Israel: It is by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified but whom God raised from the dead, that this man stands before you healed. Jesus is
> 
> “‘the stone you builders rejected,
> 
>     which has become the cornerstone.’
> 
> Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to mankind by which we must be saved.”
> 
> When they saw the courage of Peter and John and realized that they were unschooled, ordinary men, they were astonished and they took note that these men had been with Jesus. - Acts 4:8-13
				
## Faith is Potent and Powerful

Faith is very powerful. It does not take much to do great things. Jesus describes that having faith the size of a mustard seed is enough to (metaphorically) uproot trees and move mountains.

> He replied, “If you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mulberry tree, ‘Be uprooted and planted in the sea,’ and it will obey you." - Luke 17:6

> Jesus replied, “Truly I tell you, if you have faith and do not doubt, not only can you do what was done to the fig tree, but also you can say to this mountain, ‘Go, throw yourself into the sea,’ and it will be done. If you believe, you will receive whatever you ask for in prayer.” - Matthew 21:21-22
 
> “Have faith in God,” Jesus answered. “Truly I tell you, if anyone says to this mountain, ‘Go, throw yourself into the sea,’ and does not doubt in their heart but believes that what they say will happen, it will be done for them. Therefore I tell you, whatever you ask for in prayer, believe that you have received it, and it will be yours." - Mark 11:22-24

> He replied, “Because you have so little faith. Truly I tell you, if you have faith as small as a mustard seed, you can say to this mountain, ‘Move from here to there,’ and it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you.” - Matthew 17:20

## Faith Brings Great Heavenly Rewards

It can be difficult to sacrifice the temporary things of this life for faith in Jesus Christ. But we have His promise that we will be rewarded in heaven.

> And everyone who has left houses or brothers or sisters or father or mother or wife or children or fields for my sake will receive a hundred times as much and will inherit eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and many who are last will be first. - Matthew 19:29-30

## Faith Leads to A Better Understanding of Scripture

Our relationship with Jesus Christ through faith, helps us to better understand scripture.

> He said, “The knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of God has been given to you, but to others I speak in parables, so that,
> 
> “‘though seeing, they may not see;
> 
>     though hearing, they may not understand.’" - Luke 8:10

> He told them, “The secret of the kingdom of God has been given to you. But to those on the outside everything is said in parables so that,
> 
> “‘they may be ever seeing but never perceiving,
> 
>     and ever hearing but never understanding;
> 
> otherwise they might turn and be forgiven!’” - Mark 4:11-12
 
> He replied, “Because the knowledge of the secrets of the kingdom of heaven has been given to you, but not to them. Whoever has will be given more, and they will have an abundance. Whoever does not have, even what they have will be taken from them." - Matthew 13:11-12

## Faith Allows Us to Offload Our Burdens onto Christ

Jesus welcomes us with open arms. He wants to take away our sin-related burdens and give us peace and rest. The more faith that we have, the more that we can lean into that blessing!

> “Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light.” - Matthew 11:28-30

## Faith can Bring Earthly Rewards

Faith can introduce opportunities here on earth. God loves to reward those with faith. Be careful not to take this as a promotion of the prosperity gospel however, God does not "owe" you anything.

> “Ask and it will be given to you; seek and you will find; knock and the door will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives; the one who seeks finds; and to the one who knocks, the door will be opened. - Matthew 7:7-8

 
> Until now you have not asked for anything in my name. Ask and you will receive, and your joy will be complete. - John 16:24

## Faith Can Help Us to Discern God's Will

Through the relationship that we cultivate with God through faith, we are able to learn about His will for us.

> Do not conform to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you will be able to test and approve what God’s will is—his good, pleasing and perfect will. - Romans 12:2

## Faith does not Replace the Law

Following the law is the way in which we can show gratitude to Christ for what he has done for us, which we have received through our faithful relationship with Him. 

> Where, then, is boasting? It is excluded. Because of what law? The law that requires works? No, because of the law that requires faith. For we maintain that a person is justified by faith apart from the works of the law. Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles too? Yes, of Gentiles too, since there is only one God, who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through that same faith. Do we, then, nullify the law by this faith? Not at all! Rather, we uphold the law. - Romans 3:27-31

## God's Relationship with Man is Not an Obligation

God does not owe us anything. If we sin, it has no impact on Him. Our righteousness is of no benefit to Him. As a consequence, we need to humble ourselves and establish our relationship with God through faith. We should not expect Him to be at our beckon call out of some obligation to make up for all the suffering that we have "undeservedly" experienced in this life.

> “Can a man be of benefit to God?
>     Can even a wise person benefit him?
> What pleasure would it give the Almighty if you were righteous?
>     What would he gain if your ways were blameless? - Job 22:2-3

> Look up at the heavens and see;
> gaze at the clouds so high above you.
> If you sin, how does that affect him?
> If your sins are many, what does that do to him?
> If you are righteous, what do you give to him,
> or what does he receive from your hand?
> Your wickedness only affects humans like yourself,
> and your righteousness only other people. - Job 35:5-8

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
