=> ../../index.gmi Home

# God is Sovereign

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## God is All Powerful and Sovereign Over the Whole Universe

Job correctly recognizes the power of God. He knows his place; he does not condemn God (in this section). Because God is sovereign, Job says that he could not possibly contend with God successfully. As unappealing as this reality is to those outside the faith, it is none the less true.

> "How then can I dispute with him?
> How can I find words to argue with him?
> 
> Though I were innocent, I could not answer him;
> 
> I could only plead with my Judge for mercy.
> 
> Even if I summoned him and he responded,
> 
> I do not believe he would give me a hearing.
> 
> He would crush me with a storm
> 
> and multiply my wounds for no reason.
> 
> He would not let me catch my breath
> 
> but would overwhelm me with misery.
> 
> If it is a matter of strength, he is mighty!
> 
> And if it is a matter of justice, who can challenge him?
> 
> Even if I were innocent, my mouth would condemn me;
> 
> if I were blameless, it would pronounce me guilty.
> 
> - Job 9:14-20

## God is Just

The Jews questioned God, wondering if he was truly just. God answers them directly through the prophet Ezekiel. God is just, humans are not.

> “Yet you say, ‘The way of the Lord is not just.’ Hear, you Israelites: Is my way unjust? Is it not your ways that are unjust? If a righteous person turns from their righteousness and commits sin, they will die for it; because of the sin they have committed they will die. But if a wicked person turns away from the wickedness they have committed and does what is just and right, they will save their life. Because they consider all the offenses they have committed and turn away from them, that person will surely live; they will not die. Yet the Israelites say, ‘The way of the Lord is not just.’ Are my ways unjust, people of Israel? Is it not your ways that are unjust? - Ezekiel 18:25-29

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
