=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Greed

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## Greed is Unquenchable

From the worldly perspective, Haman had it all. He was second in command over a vast empire, he had a large family and lots of wealth, he had people bow down to him wherever he went. But all this was not enough. His greed destroyed him.

> Haman boasted to them about his vast wealth, his many sons, and all the ways the king had honored him and how he had elevated him above the other nobles and officials. "And that's not all," Haman added. "I'm the only person Queen Esther invited to accompany the king to the banquet she gave. And she had invited me along with the king tomorrow. But all this gives me no satisfaction as long as I see that Jew Mordecai sitting at the king's gate." - Esther 5:11-13

## Life is About More than Owning Possessions

Jesus warns us that life is about so much more than the number of possessions that we have.

> Then he said to them, “Watch out! Be on your guard against all kinds of greed; life does not consist in an abundance of possessions.” - Luke 12:15

## Simon the Sorcerer's Greed

Simon the Sorcerer wanted to pay for the ability to give the Holy Spirit to others. Peter and John strongly corrected him, since he completely missed the point of the Christian message. The life of a Christian cannot be bought with money and should not be used to wield power over others.

> When Simon saw that the Spirit was given at the laying on of the apostles’ hands, he offered them money and said, “Give me also this ability so that everyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit.” - Acts 8:18-19

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
