=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Heaven

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## Angels Present Themselves Before God

God is ruler over all, that includes angelic beings and Satan himself.

> One day the angels came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came with them. - Job 1:6

## A Resurection Will Occur

Some still disagree on whether or not a resurection will occur before christians enter heaven. However, there are several references in the bible that say we will be resurrected.

> “At that time Michael, the great prince who protects your people, will arise. There will be a time of distress such as has not happened from the beginning of nations until then. But at that time your people—everyone whose name is found written in the book—will be delivered. Multitudes who sleep in the dust of the earth will awake: some to everlasting life, others to shame and everlasting contempt. - Daniel 12:1-2

> That same day the Sadducees, who say there is no resurrection, came to him with a question. “Teacher,” they said, “Moses told us that if a man dies without having children, his brother must marry the widow and raise up offspring for him. Now there were seven brothers among us. The first one married and died, and since he had no children, he left his wife to his brother. The same thing happened to the second and third brother, right on down to the seventh. Finally, the woman died. Now then, at the resurrection, whose wife will she be of the seven, since all of them were married to her?”
> 
> Jesus replied, “You are in error because you do not know the Scriptures or the power of God. At the resurrection people will neither marry nor be given in marriage; they will be like the angels in heaven. But about the resurrection of the dead—have you not read what God said to you, ‘I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob’? He is not the God of the dead but of the living.” - Matthew 22:23-32

## Hell Confirmed by Jesus

Just as there is a heaven where christians can live with God in the afterlife, there is a place of punishment confirmed by Jesus for those who do not receive salvation through christ.

> where
> 
> “‘the worms that eat them do not die,
>     and the fire is not quenched.’ - Mark 9:48

## A Glimpse of Heaven's Beauty

This seems to be a hint at what heaven will be - things that are so amazing that they cannot possibly be described.

> I know a man in Christ who fourteen years ago was caught up to the third heaven. Whether it was in the body or out of the body I do not know—God knows. And I know that this man—whether in the body or apart from the body I do not know, but God knows— was caught up to paradise and heard inexpressible things, things that no one is permitted to tell. - 2 Corinthians 12:2-4

## Physical Descriptions of Angels

Angelic beings appear quite different to the traditional societal depiction.

> See Ezekiel 1 and 10

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
