=> ../../index.gmi Home

# How God Works

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## God Does Not Change His Mind

God can see the whole picture: past, present and future. Thus he does not ever need to change his mind.

> "He who is the Glory of Israel does not lie or change his mind; for he is not a human being, that he should change his mind." - 1 Samuel 15:29

> Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. - Hebrews 13:8

## God Makes Himself Known to Those Who Seek Him

If you make a sincere effort to pursue God, He will reveal himself to you. But at the same time, if you reject Him, He will leave you to your sin.

> "And you, my son Solomon, acknowledge that God of your father, and serve him with wholehearted devotion and with a willing mind, for the Lord searches every heart and understands every desire and every thought. If you seek him, he will be found by you; but if you forsake him, he will reject you forever." - 1 Chronicles 28:9

## You Can be a Part of God's Plan, But He Will Find a Way With or Without You

Esther was terrified of going to the king to save the Jews from Haman, and for good reason. If the king did not "forgive" her for entering his presence without a summons, she would be killed. But it was God's plan for Esther to save the Jews, and that meant facing her fear and going to the king.

> "For if you remain silent at this time, relief and deliverance for the Jews will arise from another place, but you and your father's family will perish. And who knows but that you have come to your royal position for such a time as this?" - Esther 4:14

## God is Perfectly Just

One of God's fundamental character traits is that he is perfectly just.

> God is just: He will pay back trouble to those who trouble you and give relief to you who are troubled, and to us as well. This will happen when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven in blazing fire with his powerful angels. - 2 Thessalonians 1:6-7

## God is Present on the Earth and Must Remain Present

Some have said that God is like a clock maker. That he created the earth, died for our sins, and then left it on it's own (like a running clock). This verse seems to imply that this idea is false. If God would have done this, the whole earth could not have survived.

> If it were his intention and he withdrew his spirit and breath, all humanity would perish together and mankind would return to the dust. - Job 34:14-15

## God is Perfectly Holy

No human level of holiness can compare to the holiness of God. When Nadab and Abihu challenged God's holiness, God proved that they were no match for Him.

> Aaron’s sons Nadab and Abihu took their censers, put fire in them and added incense; and they offered unauthorized fire before the Lord, contrary to his command. So fire came out from the presence of the Lord and consumed them, and they died before the Lord. Moses then said to Aaron, “This is what the Lord spoke of when he said:
> 
> “‘Among those who approach me
>     I will be proved holy;
> in the sight of all the people
>     I will be honored.’”
> 
> Aaron remained silent. - Leviticus 10:1-3

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
