=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Human Failings

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## Sin is Innate in Human Beings

The first man born on earth murdered the second man born on earth.

> Now Cain said to his brother Abel, "Let's go out to the field." While they were in the field, Cain attacked his brother Abel and killed him. - Genesis 4:8

## Left to Ourselves, Humans Devolve into Pure Evil

The entire population of the city of Sodom went to homosexually rape the angels that had come to the city.

> Before they had gone to bed, all the men from every part of the city of Sodom - both young and old - surrounded the house. They called to Lot, "Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us so that we can have sex with them." - Genesis 19:4-5

## Humans Are Profoundly Wicked

Gibeah's men intended to maliciously abuse and exercise their power over the Levite traveler who was passing through their town by raping him. They would not accept his concubine and a virgin as a substitute, but raped them continuously throughout the night until she died.

> While they were enjoying themselves, some of the men of the city surrounded the house. Pounding on the door, they shouted to the old man who owned the house, "Bring out the man who came to your house so we can have sex with him."

> The owner of the house went outside and said to them, "No my friends, don't be so vile. Since this man is my guest, don't do this outrageous thing. Look, here is my virgin daughter, and his concubine. I will bring them out to you now, and you can use them and do to them whatever you wish. But as for this man, don't do such an outrageous thing."

> But the men would not listen to him. So the man took his concubine and sent her outside to them, and they raped her and abused her throughout the night, and at dawn they let her go. - Judges 19:22-25

## Even Under Perfect Conditions, Humans Are Still Profoundly Evil

David had it all, he was king over all Israel, the Lord had given him rest on all sides from his enemies, and he had the blessing of God's covenant on him. And yet, even with all that going right for him, he still commited what humans consider to be the worst possible sin: he murdered Uriah the Hittite because he was lustful for Bathsheba.

> Then Nathan said to David, "You are the man! This is what the Lord, the God of Israel says: 'I annointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you from the hand of Saul. I gave your master's house to you, and your master's wives into your arms. I gave you all Israel and Judah. And if all this had been too little, I would have given you even more. Why did you despise the word of the Lord by doing what is evil in his eyes? You struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword and took his wife to be your own. You killed him with the sword of the Ammonites. Now, therefore, the sword will never depart from your house, because you despised me and took the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be your own.'" - 2 Samuel 12:7-10

## The Pharisees Could Not Accept that Jesus was the Messiah

In a common governmental committee fashion, the Pharisees assembled and questioned a formerly blind man multiple times. They were looking for any excuse they could find to disavow the evidence that Jesus was anything more than a demon possessed man. They simply could not accept that He was the Messiah.

> They brought to the Pharisees the man who had been blind. Now the day on which Jesus had made the mud and opened the man’s eyes was a Sabbath. Therefore the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. “He put mud on my eyes,” the man replied, “and I washed, and now I see.”
> 
> Some of the Pharisees said, “This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath.”
> 
> But others asked, “How can a sinner perform such signs?” So they were divided.
> 
> Then they turned again to the blind man, “What have you to say about him? It was your eyes he opened.”
> 
> The man replied, “He is a prophet.”
> 
> They still did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they sent for the man’s parents. “Is this your son?” they asked. “Is this the one you say was born blind? How is it that now he can see?”
> 
> “We know he is our son,” the parents answered, “and we know he was born blind. But how he can see now, or who opened his eyes, we don’t know. Ask him. He is of age; he will speak for himself.” His parents said this because they were afraid of the Jewish leaders, who already had decided that anyone who acknowledged that Jesus was the Messiah would be put out of the synagogue. That was why his parents said, “He is of age; ask him.”
> 
> A second time they summoned the man who had been blind. “Give glory to God by telling the truth,” they said. “We know this man is a sinner.”
> 
> He replied, “Whether he is a sinner or not, I don’t know. One thing I do know. I was blind but now I see!”
> 
> Then they asked him, “What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes?”
> 
> He answered, “I have told you already and you did not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you want to become his disciples too?”
> 
> Then they hurled insults at him and said, “You are this fellow’s disciple! We are disciples of Moses! We know that God spoke to Moses, but as for this fellow, we don’t even know where he comes from.”
> 
> The man answered, “Now that is remarkable! You don’t know where he comes from, yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners. He listens to the godly person who does his will. Nobody has ever heard of opening the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing.”
> 
> To this they replied, “You were steeped in sin at birth; how dare you lecture us!” And they threw him out. - John 9:13-34
				
## Even Humanity's Best is a Failure

Peter was described as Jesus' closest friend. That is a badge of high honour. Peter spent three years traveling around with Jesus learning from Him. If ever there was a human being (in the New Testament) who was a candidate for "righteous", it would've been Peter. However, in a matter of hours, he went from promising to stay and suffer with Jesus to denying that he even knew Him three times. This is why we need a saviour.

> Then Jesus told them, “This very night you will all fall away on account of me, for it is written:
> 
> “‘I will strike the shepherd,
> 
>     and the sheep of the flock will be scattered.’
> 
> But after I have risen, I will go ahead of you into Galilee.”
> 
> Peter replied, “Even if all fall away on account of you, I never will.”
> 
> “Truly I tell you,” Jesus answered, “this very night, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times.”
> 
> But Peter declared, “Even if I have to die with you, I will never disown you.” And all the other disciples said the same. - Matthew 26:31-35

> Now Peter was sitting out in the courtyard, and a servant girl came to him. “You also were with Jesus of Galilee,” she said.
> 
> But he denied it before them all. “I don’t know what you’re talking about,” he said.
> 
> Then he went out to the gateway, where another servant girl saw him and said to the people there, “This fellow was with Jesus of Nazareth.”
> 
> He denied it again, with an oath: “I don’t know the man!”
> 
> After a little while, those standing there went up to Peter and said, “Surely you are one of them; your accent gives you away.”
> 
> Then he began to call down curses, and he swore to them, “I don’t know the man!”
> 
> Immediately a rooster crowed. Then Peter remembered the word Jesus had spoken: “Before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times.” And he went outside and wept bitterly. - Matthew 26:69-75

## Many Live in Opposition to Christ

As a non-Christian, your best accomplishment is in your shame if you ever become a Christian. But thank God that there is a Savior who will transform the life of all Christians into something worth being proud of.

> For, as I have often told you before and now tell you again even with tears, many live as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their destiny is destruction, their god is their stomach, and their glory is in their shame. Their mind is set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven. And we eagerly await a Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ, who, by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control, will transform our lowly bodies so that they will be like his glorious body. - Philippians 3:18-21

## Paul Lists the Flawed Traits of Man

Paul spells out humanity's flaws directly in Romans.

> As it is written:
> 
> “There is no one righteous, not even one;
>     there is no one who understands;
>     there is no one who seeks God.
> All have turned away,
>     they have together become worthless;
> there is no one who does good,
>     not even one.”
> “Their throats are open graves;
>     their tongues practice deceit.”
> “The poison of vipers is on their lips.”
>     “Their mouths are full of cursing and bitterness.”
> “Their feet are swift to shed blood; - Romans 3:10-15

## In the Old Testament, Man had to Cover his Sin Before Going to Minister Before God

The human need for a savior is profound. The priests had to cover their sinfulness with holy clothes that had to stay in the temple.

> Once the priests enter the holy precincts, they are not to go into the outer court until they leave behind the garments in which they minister, for these are holy. They are to put on other clothes before they go near the places that are for the people.” - Ezekiel 42:14

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
