=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Love

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## God is Love

Love is an essential connection between us and God. God loves us and calls us to love others. Note that this is not eros (or erotic) love but agape (or unconditional) love.

> Whoever does not love does not know God, because God is love. - 1 John 4:8

> And so we know and rely on the love God has for us. - 1 John 4:16

> We love because he first loved us. - 1 John 4:19

## Love can Overcome Sin

All righteous acts stem from love, therefore live is in contrast to sin.

> Above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins. - 1 Peter 4:8

## What Love Looks Like

Paul wrote an incredibly famous chapter to the church in Corinth about what love looks like. Specifically, love: is patient, is kind, always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres, doesn't envy, isn't proud, doesn't dishonour others, isn't self-seeking, isn't easily angered, keeps no record of wrongs, and doesn't delight in evil. Relative to the other virtues of hope and faith, Paul indicates that love is the greatest.

> See 1 Corinthians 13

## The Connection Between Love and Joy

Jesus gives us the key to the fruit of the Spirit of joy: remain in His love.

> “As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Now remain in my love. If you keep my commands, you will remain in my love, just as I have kept my Father’s commands and remain in his love. I have told you this so that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be complete. - John 15:9-11

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
