=> ../../index.gmi Home

# The Meaning of Life

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## The Meaning of Life is a God Given Question

God, when He created us, set in our inmost being the desire to understand the meaning of life.

> He has made everything beautiful in its time. He has also set eternity in the human heart; yet no one can fathom what God has done from beginning to end. - Ecclesiastes 3:11

## Find Satisfaction in Your Work

Do your best to find joy in the work that you do - this is a gift from God. Your work may be meaningless, but your satisfaction in the work is not.

> A person can do nothing better than to eat and drink and find satisfaction in their own toil. This too, I see, is from the hand of God, for without him, who can eat or find enjoyment? - Ecclesiastes 2:24-25

> I know that there is nothing better for people than to be happy and to do good while they live. That each of them may eat and drink, and find satisfaction in all their toil—this is the gift of God. - Ecclesiastes 3:12-13

> So I saw that there is nothing better for a person than to enjoy their work, because that is their lot. For who can bring them to see what will happen after them? - Ecclesiastes 3:22

> This is what I have observed to be good: that it is appropriate for a person to eat, to drink and to find satisfaction in their toilsome labor under the sun during the few days of life God has given them—for this is their lot. Moreover, when God gives someone wealth and possessions, and the ability to enjoy them, to accept their lot and be happy in their toil—this is a gift of God. They seldom reflect on the days of their life, because God keeps them occupied with gladness of heart. - Ecclesiastes 5:18-20

## Humans are Created by God, and are Limited

Contrary to secular belief, we humans do not have the ability to improve ourselves to the point where we become like gods. God made us and we are limited by the breath of life, which God gave to humans and animals alike. One day, we will return to dust.

> I know that everything God does will endure forever; nothing can be added to it and nothing taken from it. God does it so that people will fear him. - Ecclesiastes 3:14

> Surely the fate of human beings is like that of the animals; the same fate awaits them both: As one dies, so dies the other. All have the same breath; humans have no advantage over animals. Everything is meaningless. All go to the same place; all come from dust, and to dust all return. - Ecclesiastes 3:19-20

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
