=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Pride

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## Stay Humble, For God Rules Over You

Despite being second only to Pharaoh, Joseph didn't let his pride go to his head. He had the opportunity to enslave his brothers and punish them for what they did to him, but he rhetorically responds: "Am I in the place of God?".

> But Joseph said to them, "Don't be afraid. Am I in the place of God?" - Genesis 50:19

## Give Praise to God Instead of Your Own Ego

Daniel gives us a great example of how to remain humble and keep our pride under control. Remember that it is only by God's grace and mercy that we are able to do anything. When we are tempted to take credit and inflate our egos, we should instead give that praise to God.

> Daniel replied, “No wise man, enchanter, magician or diviner can explain to the king the mystery he has asked about, but there is a God in heaven who reveals mysteries. He has shown King Nebuchadnezzar what will happen in days to come. Your dream and the visions that passed through your mind as you were lying in bed are these:
> 
> “As Your Majesty was lying there, your mind turned to things to come, and the revealer of mysteries showed you what is going to happen. As for me, this mystery has been revealed to me, not because I have greater wisdom than anyone else alive, but so that Your Majesty may know the interpretation and that you may understand what went through your mind. - Daniel 2:27-30
				
## Keep Your Pride in Check

King Nebuchadnezzar was prone to stroke his own ego, and assume that he was more powerful and awesome than he really was. God punished him for his pride by making him insane.

> he said, “Is not this the great Babylon I have built as the royal residence, by my mighty power and for the glory of my majesty?” - Daniel 4:30

## We are No Better than Our Ancestors

Many people assume that we are better than our ancestors were. We are smarter, more sophisticated, wiser, less gullible, etc. Jesus himself warns against that attitude. We are in no way superior to our ancestors. Had we been in their place, we would've done what they did!

> And you say, ‘If we had lived in the days of our ancestors, we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.’ So you testify against yourselves that you are the descendants of those who murdered the prophets. Go ahead, then, and complete what your ancestors started! - Matthew 23:30-32

## Our Pride Condemns Us

Because we claim that we know what we are doing, which is an expression of pride, we are guilty of sin! If only we would repent and cast off our pride, God would forgive us.

> Jesus said, “If you were blind, you would not be guilty of sin; but now that you claim you can see, your guilt remains." - John 9:41

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
