=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Satan

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## What the Devil is Like

Here the devil is described as being more crafty that any of the other animals that God made.

> Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, "Did God really say, 'You must not eat from any tree in the garden'?" - Genesis 3:1

## Evil Spirits Exist and Can Torment People

Saul had disobeyed God, so in the place of the Spirit of the Lord, God sent an evil spirit to torment him.

> Now the Spirit of the Lord had departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord tormented him. - 1 Samuel 16:14

## Satan Schemes Against Man

Don't be deceived. The devil does exist and does make an effort to disrupt the work of God on earth by deceiving human beings.

> "Does Job fear God for nothing?" Satan replied. "Have you not put a hedge around him and his household and everything he has? You have blessed the work of his hands, so that his flocks and herds are spread throughout the land. But now stretch out your hand and strike everything he has, and he will surely curse you to your face." - Job 1:9-11

> "Skin for skin!" Satan replied. "A man will give all he has for his own life. But now stretch out your hand and strike his flesh and bones, and he will surely curse you to your face." - Job 2:4-5

## Satan Never Admits Defeat

Satan incited God to strike Job by taking away all of his belongings. Satan claimed that Job would curse God, but Job did not. Instead of admitting that he was wrong, he simply moved the goalposts by claiming instead that Job would curse God if God took away Job's physical health.

> Then the Lord said to Satan, "Have you considered my servant Job? There is no one on earth like him; he is blameless and upright, a man who fears God and shuns evil. And he still maintains his integrity, though you incited me against him to ruin him without any reason." - Job 2:3

## Satan's Routine

Satan roams around the earth, looking to stir up trouble. Don't think that he's far off, or not paying attention.

> The Lord said to Satan, "Where have you come from?"
> 
> Satan answered the Lord, "From roaming throughout the earth, going back and forth on it." - Job 1:7

> Be alert and of sober mind. Your enemy the devil prowls around like a roaring lion looking for someone to devour. - 1 Peter 5:8

## Satan is a Murderer and the Father of Lies

Satan is an irredeemable being. He lies so completely that Jesus describes lying as his native language.

> You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your father’s desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies. - John 8:44

## Satan and his Demons Were Once Angels

This is the best evidence in the Bible so far that Satan/demons were once angels in heaven before being cast down into hell. It was not clear if this was a christian legend or fact before reading this.

> For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but sent them to hell, putting them in chains of darkness to be held for judgment; - 2 Peter 2:4

## Satan is the Great Deceiver

Satan isn't a man in a red suit with horns. He makes himself appear like an angel of light. He is the great deceiver.

> And no wonder, for Satan himself masquerades as an angel of light. - 2 Corinthians 11:14

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
