=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Sin

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## Paul's Answer to the Nicolaitans' Sect

It is not acceptable to just sin even if God has forgiven all sin already. We can make so much more of our lives.

> What shall we say, then? Shall we go on sinning so that grace may increase? By no means! We are those who have died to sin; how can we live in it any longer? - Romans 6:1-2

## Man is Basically Evil

Man is not basically good. Man is basically evil. All have sinned. There is no one righteous, not even one. No one can be perfectly good on their own.

> As it is written:
> 
> “There is no one righteous, not even one; there is no one who understands; there is no one who seeks God. All have turned away, they have together become worthless; there is no one who does good, not even one.” “Their throats are open graves; their tongues practice deceit.” “The poison of vipers is on their lips.” “Their mouths are full of cursing and bitterness.” “Their feet are swift to shed blood; ruin and misery mark their ways, and the way of peace they do not know.” “There is no fear of God before their eyes.” for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, - Romans 3:10-18,23

S## infulness Cannot be Justified by the Excuse it Makes God Look Good

Sinfulness cannot be justified by saying it makes God look good or by saying that since Jesus died for our sins we have the right to sin as much as we like. Sin is not necessary for good to exist and there is no truth to the idea of balance between good and evil in the world. Sin is a disease that must be fought and destroyed.

> But if our unrighteousness brings out God's righteousness more clearly, what shall we say? That God is unjust in bringing his wrath on us? (I am using a human argument.) Certainly not! If that were so, how could God judge the world? Someone might argue, “If my falsehood enhances God's truthfulness and so increases his glory, why am I still condemned as a sinner?” Why not say—as some slanderously claim that we say—“Let us do evil that good may result”? Their condemnation is just! - Romans 3:5-8

## Sinning Against God is Often About the Intention of the Heart

Here Paul cast out a demon with God's power however he did it simply becuase he was annoyed, not becuase it was necessarily the right thing to do. Later it seems he would go through trails becuase of this descision. Sinning is often more about the intention of a person's heart rather than just the disobediance of a written rule.

> She kept this up for many days. Finally Paul became so annoyed that he turned around and said to the spirit, “In the name of Jesus Christ I command you to come out of her!” At that moment the spirit left her. - Acts 16:18

## The Fall of Man has Resulted in us Receiving the Great Burden of Life

Since humanity is fallen we are doomed to toil away without meaning unless we find God. Solomon was the wisest man to have ever lived and he came to this conclusion from watching the world.

> I applied my mind to study and to explore by wisdom all that is done under the heavens. What a heavy burden God has laid on mankind! I have seen all the things that are done under the sun; all of them are meaningless, a chasing after the wind. - Ecclesiastes 1:13-14

## Lust in Itself is Sinful and Destructive

If you even just lustfully look at another person you run the risk of causing destruction in your life as temptation often follows these sort of envious situations. It also is unhealthy to reduce love to lust and poisons your mind.

> But I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart. - Matthew 5:28

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
