=> ../../index.gmi Home

# Temptation

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## How to Avoid Temptation Before it Even Starts

Once in temptation it can be very hard as humans to fight it. To help avoid this ask God to keep temptation out of your life.

> “Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak.” - Matthew 26:41

## Remove Sources of Temptation From Your Life

As mentioned in the above point it can be very hard to fight temptation once it's bearing down on you. One way to counter this in addition to prayer is to cut out the things in life that may contribute to your temptation.

> If your right eye causes you to stumble, gouge it out and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to stumble, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to go into hell. - Matthew 5:29-30

> If your hand or your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life maimed or crippled than to have two hands or two feet and be thrown into eternal fire. And if your eye causes you to stumble, gouge it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into the fire of hell. - Matthew 18:8-9

> If your hand causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life maimed than with two hands to go into hell, where the fire never goes out. And if your foot causes you to stumble, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than to have two feet and be thrown into hell. And if your eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into hell, - Mark 9:43-47
 
> Do not offer any part of yourself to sin as an instrument of wickedness, but rather offer yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life; and offer every part of yourself to him as an instrument of righteousness. - Romans 6:13

## The Evils of Causing Someone Else to Stumble

According to God, causing someone else to sin is one of the worst things you can do. Avoid this!

> It would be better for them to be thrown into the sea with a millstone tied around their neck than to cause one of these little ones to stumble. - Luke 17:2

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
