=> ../../index.gmi Home

# The Golden Rule

=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins

## Golden Rule References

The "Golden Rule" is what christians call the rule given by Jesus/God that sums up the law and the prophets. Really the entire law boils down to the idea of "love others as yourself (including your enemies) and love God". Nothing else matters quite as much as this.

> A new command I give you: Love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another. By this everyone will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another.” - John 13:34-35

> Through love and faithfulness sin is atoned for; through the fear of the Lord evil is avoided. - Proverbs 16:6
 
> “You have heard that it was said, 'Love your neighbor and hate your enemy.' But I tell you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, that you may be children of your Father in heaven. He causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. If you love those who love you, what reward will you get? Are not even the tax collectors doing that? And if you greet only your own people, what are you doing more than others? Do not even pagans do that? Be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect. - Matthew 5:43-48
				
> “But to you who are listening I say: Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you, bless those who curse you, pray for those who mistreat you. If someone slaps you on one cheek, turn to them the other also. If someone takes your coat, do not withhold your shirt from them. Give to everyone who asks you, and if anyone takes what belongs to you, do not demand it back. Do to others as you would have them do to you.
> 
> “If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who are good to you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners do that. And if you lend to those from whom you expect repayment, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, expecting to be repaid in full. But love your enemies, do good to them, and lend to them without expecting to get anything back. Then your reward will be great, and you will be children of the Most High, because he is kind to the ungrateful and wicked. Be merciful, just as your Father is merciful. - Luke 6:27-36
 
> So in everything, do to others what you would have them do to you, for this sums up the Law and the Prophets. - Matthew 7:12
 
> “Teacher, which is the greatest commandment in the Law?”
>
> Jesus replied: “'Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.' This is the first and greatest commandment. And the second is like it: 'Love your neighbor as yourself.' All the Law and the Prophets hang on these two commandments.” - Matthew 22:36-40
 
> “The most important one,” answered Jesus, “is this: 'Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one. Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind and with all your strength.' The second is this: 'Love your neighbor as yourself.' There is no commandment greater than these.” - Mark 12:29-31
 
> He answered, “'Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength and with all your mind'; and, 'Love your neighbor as yourself.'” - Luke 10:27

=> ../bible_bins_home.gmi Back to List of Bible Bins
=> ../blog_home.gmi Back to Blog Home
